README.md, before:

# EnvisaMon

EnvisaMon is a lightweight Go application designed to connect to an EnvisaLink™ module via the Third Party Interface (TPI). It monitors the connection, handles authentication, and logs all TPI messages to disk for analysis or audit.

## Features

- **TPI Connection:** Connects to the EnvisaLink TPI over TCP/IP (default port 4025).
- **Auto-Reconnect:** Automatically attempts to reconnect with exponential backoff if the connection is lost.
- **Dual Logging:** Separates raw TPI protocol messages from application operational logs.
- **Log Rotation:** Automatically manages log file sizes and retention.

## Prerequisites

Before running the application, you must set the EnvisaLink TPI password as an environment variable:

```bash
export ENVISALINK_TPI_KEY="your_password"
```

*Note: The password is the same one used to access the EnvisaLink's local web interface.*

## Usage

```bash
./envisaMon [options] <ip-address>[:port] [<url>]
```

### Arguments

*   `<ip-address>[:port]`: **(Required)** The IP address of the EnvisaLink module. Optionally include the port (e.g., `192.168.1.50:4026`). Defaults to port `4025` if omitted.
*   `<url>`: **(Optional)** The destination HTTPS URL for reporting events (e.g., `https://events.example.com/api/ingest`). Remote reporting is only active if this URL is provided and the `ALARM_MON_API_KEY` environment variable is set.

### Options

*   `-m`: Print raw TPI messages to standard output (stdout) in addition to the log file.
*   `-l`: Print application operational logs to standard output (stdout) in addition to the log file.
*   `-u`: Deduplicate consecutive identical TPI messages.

### Examples

Connect and log locally only:
```bash
./envisaMon 192.168.1.50
```

Connect to default port 4025 and report to an API:
```bash
./envisaMon 192.168.1.50 https://api.myserver.com/events
```

Connect to a custom port and report:
```bash
./envisaMon 192.168.1.50:4026 https://api.myserver.com/webhook
```

Connect, see logs in console, and report:
```bash
./envisaMon -m -l 192.168.1.50 https://api.myserver.com/events
```

## REST API Reporting (Optional)

EnvisaMon can report all TPI messages and application events to a REST API endpoint via HTTPS POST requests. This feature is enabled only if both a destination URL is provided on the command line and the `ALARM_MON_API_KEY` is set.

### Authentication

To authenticate with your REST API, set the `ALARM_MON_API_KEY` environment variable.

```bash
export ALARM_MON_API_KEY="your_api_key_here"
```

### JSON Payload

The reporting API expects a JSON object with the following structure:

```json
{
  "event_id": "uuid-string",
  "event_unixtime": "1678886400.123456",
  "event_message": "The log message content",
  "message_type": "TPI" | "Application",
  "system_id": "192.168.1.50:4025"
}
```

*   `event_id`: A unique UUID v4 for the event.
*   `event_unixtime`: The Unix timestamp when the event occurred.
*   `event_message`: The log content (timestamps are stripped from Application logs).
*   `message_type`: Indicates the source of the log ("TPI" for raw device messages, "Application" for internal app logs).
*   `system_id`: The configured EnvisaLink host and port.

## Logging

The application maintains two distinct log files in the `./logs` directory. These files are automatically rotated and compressed.

### 1. TPI Messages Log (`logs/tpi-messages.log`)
Contains the raw, unprocessed ASCII data received from the EnvisaLink module.
*   **Format:** Raw message text only (no added timestamps or prefixes).
*   **Rotation:** Rotates when reaching 5MB. Retains the 3 most recent log files.

### 2. Application Log (`logs/application.log`)
Contains operational events such as connection attempts, authentication status, and errors.
*   **Format:** Standard log format with date and time (e.g., `2026/01/27 10:00:00 INFO: Connected...`).
*   **Rotation:** Rotates when reaching 5MB. Retains the 3 most recent log files.

## Message Structure

For detailed information on the structure and meaning of the raw TPI messages logged in `logs/tpi-messages.log`, please refer to the [EnvisaLink TPI Programmer's Document](EnvisaLinkTPI-ADEMCO-1-03.md).

Common TPI messages include:
*   `%CC,DATA$`: Commands/Data from EnvisaLink.
*   `^CC,DATA$`: Commands sent to EnvisaLink (or responses to commands).

Where `CC` is the command code. For example:
*   `00`: Virtual Keypad Update
*   `01`: Zone State Change
*   `02`: Partition State Change
*   `03`: Realtime CID Event

Commit message:

update README to include more remote reporting wording

README.md, after:

# EnvisaMon

EnvisaMon is a lightweight Go application designed to connect to an EnvisaLink™ module via the Third Party Interface (TPI). It monitors the connection, handles authentication, and logs all TPI messages to disk for analysis or audit. It also supports remote reporting, allowing you to forward events to a REST API for centralized monitoring or integration.

## Features

- **TPI Connection:** Connects to the EnvisaLink TPI over TCP/IP (default port 4025).
- **Auto-Reconnect:** Automatically attempts to reconnect with exponential backoff if the connection is lost.
- **Dual Logging:** Separates raw TPI protocol messages from application operational logs.
- **Log Rotation:** Automatically manages log file sizes and retention.
- **Remote Reporting:** Securely forwards events to a REST API via HTTPS with API key authentication.

## Prerequisites

Before running the application, you must set the EnvisaLink TPI password as an environment variable:

```bash
export ENVISALINK_TPI_KEY="your_password"
```

*Note: The password is the same one used to access the EnvisaLink's local web interface.*

## Usage

```bash
./envisaMon [options] <ip-address>[:port] [<url>]
```

### Arguments

*   `<ip-address>[:port]`: **(Required)** The IP address of the EnvisaLink module. Optionally include the port (e.g., `192.168.1.50:4026`). Defaults to port `4025` if omitted.
*   `<url>`: **(Optional)** The destination HTTPS URL for reporting events (e.g., `https://events.example.com/api/ingest`). Remote reporting is only active if this URL is provided and the `ALARM_MON_API_KEY` environment variable is set.

### Options

*   `-m`: Print raw TPI messages to standard output (stdout) in addition to the log file.
*   `-l`: Print application operational logs to standard output (stdout) in addition to the log file.
*   `-u`: Deduplicate consecutive identical TPI messages.

### Examples

Connect and log locally only:
```bash
./envisaMon 192.168.1.50
```

Connect to default port 4025 and report to an API:
```bash
./envisaMon 192.168.1.50 https://api.myserver.com/events
```

Connect to a custom port and report:
```bash
./envisaMon 192.168.1.50:4026 https://api.myserver.com/webhook
```

Connect, see logs in console, and report:
```bash
./envisaMon -m -l 192.168.1.50 https://api.myserver.com/events
```

## REST API Reporting (Optional)

EnvisaMon can report all TPI messages and application events to a REST API endpoint via HTTPS POST requests. This feature is enabled only if both a destination URL is provided on the command line and the `ALARM_MON_API_KEY` is set.

### Authentication

To authenticate with your REST API, set the `ALARM_MON_API_KEY` environment variable.

```bash
export ALARM_MON_API_KEY="your_api_key_here"
```

### JSON Payload

The reporting API expects a JSON object with the following structure:

```json
{
  "event_id": "uuid-string",
  "event_unixtime": "1678886400.123456",
  "event_message": "The log message content",
  "message_type": "TPI" | "Application",
  "system_id": "192.168.1.50:4025"
}
```

*   `event_id`: A unique UUID v4 for the event.
*   `event_unixtime`: The Unix timestamp when the event occurred.
*   `event_message`: The log content (timestamps are stripped from Application logs).
*   `message_type`: Indicates the source of the log ("TPI" for raw device messages, "Application" for internal app logs).
*   `system_id`: The configured EnvisaLink host and port.

## Logging

The application maintains two distinct log files in the `./logs` directory. These files are automatically rotated and compressed.

### 1. TPI Messages Log (`logs/tpi-messages.log`)
Contains the raw, unprocessed ASCII data received from the EnvisaLink module.
*   **Format:** Raw message text only (no added timestamps or prefixes).
*   **Rotation:** Rotates when reaching 5MB. Retains the 3 most recent log files.

### 2. Application Log (`logs/application.log`)
Contains operational events such as connection attempts, authentication status, and errors.
*   **Format:** Standard log format with date and time (e.g., `2026/01/27 10:00:00 INFO: Connected...`).
*   **Rotation:** Rotates when reaching 5MB. Retains the 3 most recent log files.

## Message Structure

For detailed information on the structure and meaning of the raw TPI messages logged in `logs/tpi-messages.log`, please refer to the [EnvisaLink TPI Programmer's Document](EnvisaLinkTPI-ADEMCO-1-03.md).

Common TPI messages include:
*   `%CC,DATA$`: Commands/Data from EnvisaLink.
*   `^CC,DATA$`: Commands sent to EnvisaLink (or responses to commands).

Where `CC` is the command code. For example:
*   `00`: Virtual Keypad Update
*   `01`: Zone State Change
*   `02`: Partition State Change
*   `03`: Realtime CID Event
